docs/en/features/oauth.md, before:

# OAuth

You can configure authentication services with external OAuth suppliers, right now Twitter, Facebook and Google are supported.

## 1. Create an App on the platform

For each platform, go to their developers section and follow their guides to create an app.

## 2. Set your CONSUL's url

They'll ask you for your CONSUL's auth URL, and as you can see running `rake routes` at your CONSUL repo locally:

```bash
user_omniauth_authorize GET|POST /users/auth/:provider(.:format)          users/omniauth_callbacks#passthru {:provider=>/twitter|facebook|google_oauth2/}
```

So for example the URL for facebook application would be `yourdomain.com/users/auth/facebook/callback`

## 3. Set key & secret values

When you complete the application registration you'll get a *key* and *secret* values, those need to be stored at your `config/secrets.yml` file:

```yml
  twitter_key: ""
  twitter_secret: ""
  facebook_key: ""
  facebook_secret: ""
  google_oauth2_key: ""
  google_oauth2_secret: ""
```

*NOTE:* Also in the case of Google, verify that the APIs *Contacts API* and *Google+ API* are enabled for the application.

Commit message:

Update application name
Note that, in order to have some consistency, we're always writing
"Consul Democracy", instead of using capital letters sometimes (but not
always), like we did until now.

docs/en/features/oauth.md, after:

# OAuth

You can configure authentication services with external OAuth suppliers, right now Twitter, Facebook and Google are supported.

## 1. Create an App on the platform

For each platform, go to their developers section and follow their guides to create an app.

## 2. Set your Consul Democracy's url

They'll ask you for your Consul Democracy's auth URL, and as you can see running `rake routes` at your Consul Democracy repo locally:

```bash
user_omniauth_authorize GET|POST /users/auth/:provider(.:format)          users/omniauth_callbacks#passthru {:provider=>/twitter|facebook|google_oauth2/}
```

So for example the URL for facebook application would be `yourdomain.com/users/auth/facebook/callback`

## 3. Set key & secret values

When you complete the application registration you'll get a *key* and *secret* values, those need to be stored at your `config/secrets.yml` file:

```yml
  twitter_key: ""
  twitter_secret: ""
  facebook_key: ""
  facebook_secret: ""
  google_oauth2_key: ""
  google_oauth2_secret: ""
```

*NOTE:* Also in the case of Google, verify that the APIs *Contacts API* and *Google+ API* are enabled for the application.
