docs/en/installation/digital_ocean.md, before:

# Installing CONSUL on a Digital Ocean VPS

These instructions will help you register and buy a server in Digital Ocean to install CONSUL.

First you need to [sign up](https://cloud.digitalocean.com/registrations/new) and provide your personal information.

Once you are logged in, you need to create a Droplet (that’s the name that Digital Ocean uses for a Virtual Server). Click on the “Create” green button at the top of the page and select "Droplets":

![Digital Ocean Droplets](../../img/digital_ocean/droplets.png)

In the next page, you need to select Ubuntu (it should be pre-selected) and change the version **from 18.04 x64 to 16.04 x64**.

![Digital Ocean Choose an image](../../img/digital_ocean/image.png)

In the "Choose a size" section select the **$80/mo 16GB/6CPUs** option if this is going to be a production server. If you are just setting up a test system with a few users the cheapest $5/mo option can be enough.

![Digital Ocean Choose a size](../../img/digital_ocean/size.png)

Leave the rest of the options with their defaults until “Choose a datacenter”. Select the one that will be geographically closer to your users. If you are in the EU, select either Frankfurt or Amsterdam data centers.

![Digital Ocean Choose a region](../../img/digital_ocean/region.png)

In the "Add you SSH keys" section click "New SSH Key" button.

![Digital Ocean Add your SSH Keys](../../img/digital_ocean/ssh_keys.png)

In the pop up window that appears you need to copy and paste the public key that we [generated in the previous step](generating_ssh_key.md). To see the content of this key in the terminal window type:

  ```
  cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
  ```

You should see a text like this:

  ```
  ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQDy/BXU0OsK8KLLXpd7tVnqDU+d4ZS2RHQmH+hv0BFFdP6PmUbKdBDigRqG6W3QBexB2DpVcb/bmHlfhzDlIHJn/oki+SmUYLSWWTWuSeF/1N7kWf9Ebisk6hiBkh5+i0oIJYvAUsNm9wCayQ+i3U3NjuB25HbgtyjR3jDPIhmg1xv0KZ8yeVcU+WJth0pIvwq+t4vlZbwhm/t2ah8O7hWnbaGV/MZUcj0/wFuiad98yk2MLGciV6XIIq+MMIEWjrrt933wAgzEB8vgn9acrDloJNvqx25uNMpDbmoNXJ8+/P3UDkp465jmejVd/6bRaObXplu2zTv9wDO48ZpsaACP your_username@your_computer_name
  ```

Select and copy all the text and paste it in the pop-up window like this:

![Digital Ocean New SSH Key](../../img/digital_ocean/new_ssh.png)

Please note that there will be two little green checks. If they are not there, retry copying the text because you probably left something out. Give your key a meaningful name, like **CONSUL_key** and click "Add SSH Key" button.

By using an SSH key instead of a user/password combination to access your server, it will be much more secure, as only someone with the private SSH key can access the server.

Now in the "Choose a hostname" section change the default for something more meaningful, like **consulserver** for example.

![Digital Ocean hostname](../../img/digital_ocean/hostname.png)

At the bottom of the page you’ll see a summary of your options. Check that everything is OK and click the big green "Create" button.

![Digital Ocean create](../../img/digital_ocean/create.png)

It will take a few minutes, and at the end you will have a shiny new server. It will look like this in the Digital Ocean page:

![Digital Ocean server](../../img/digital_ocean/server.png)

Next to setup CONSUL in the server check the [installer's README](https://github.com/consul/installer)

Commit message:

Update application name
Note that, in order to have some consistency, we're always writing
"Consul Democracy", instead of using capital letters sometimes (but not
always), like we did until now.

docs/en/installation/digital_ocean.md, after:

# Installing Consul Democracy on a Digital Ocean VPS

These instructions will help you register and buy a server in Digital Ocean to install Consul Democracy.

First you need to [sign up](https://cloud.digitalocean.com/registrations/new) and provide your personal information.

Once you are logged in, you need to create a Droplet (that’s the name that Digital Ocean uses for a Virtual Server). Click on the “Create” green button at the top of the page and select "Droplets":

![Digital Ocean Droplets](../../img/digital_ocean/droplets.png)

In the next page, you need to select Ubuntu (it should be pre-selected) and change the version **from 18.04 x64 to 16.04 x64**.

![Digital Ocean Choose an image](../../img/digital_ocean/image.png)

In the "Choose a size" section select the **$80/mo 16GB/6CPUs** option if this is going to be a production server. If you are just setting up a test system with a few users the cheapest $5/mo option can be enough.

![Digital Ocean Choose a size](../../img/digital_ocean/size.png)

Leave the rest of the options with their defaults until “Choose a datacenter”. Select the one that will be geographically closer to your users. If you are in the EU, select either Frankfurt or Amsterdam data centers.

![Digital Ocean Choose a region](../../img/digital_ocean/region.png)

In the "Add you SSH keys" section click "New SSH Key" button.

![Digital Ocean Add your SSH Keys](../../img/digital_ocean/ssh_keys.png)

In the pop up window that appears you need to copy and paste the public key that we [generated in the previous step](generating_ssh_key.md). To see the content of this key in the terminal window type:

  ```
  cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
  ```

You should see a text like this:

  ```
  ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQDy/BXU0OsK8KLLXpd7tVnqDU+d4ZS2RHQmH+hv0BFFdP6PmUbKdBDigRqG6W3QBexB2DpVcb/bmHlfhzDlIHJn/oki+SmUYLSWWTWuSeF/1N7kWf9Ebisk6hiBkh5+i0oIJYvAUsNm9wCayQ+i3U3NjuB25HbgtyjR3jDPIhmg1xv0KZ8yeVcU+WJth0pIvwq+t4vlZbwhm/t2ah8O7hWnbaGV/MZUcj0/wFuiad98yk2MLGciV6XIIq+MMIEWjrrt933wAgzEB8vgn9acrDloJNvqx25uNMpDbmoNXJ8+/P3UDkp465jmejVd/6bRaObXplu2zTv9wDO48ZpsaACP your_username@your_computer_name
  ```

Select and copy all the text and paste it in the pop-up window like this:

![Digital Ocean New SSH Key](../../img/digital_ocean/new_ssh.png)

Please note that there will be two little green checks. If they are not there, retry copying the text because you probably left something out. Give your key a meaningful name, like **Consul_Democracy_key** and click "Add SSH Key" button.

By using an SSH key instead of a user/password combination to access your server, it will be much more secure, as only someone with the private SSH key can access the server.

Now in the "Choose a hostname" section change the default for something more meaningful, like **consuldemocracyserver** for example.

![Digital Ocean hostname](../../img/digital_ocean/hostname.png)

At the bottom of the page you’ll see a summary of your options. Check that everything is OK and click the big green "Create" button.

![Digital Ocean create](../../img/digital_ocean/create.png)

It will take a few minutes, and at the end you will have a shiny new server. It will look like this in the Digital Ocean page:

![Digital Ocean server](../../img/digital_ocean/server.png)

Next to setup Consul Democracy in the server check the [installer's README](https://github.com/consul/installer)
